API migration guides (#14575)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/account_management/guide/usage-attribution-migration.md

---
title: Migrating from v1 to v2 of the Usage Attribution API
kind: guide
further_reading:
- link: "/account_management/plan_and_usage/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Plan and Usage Settings"
---

## Summary

This guide provides instructions for migrating from the v1 usage attribution APIs to the v2 APIs. The v1 APIs are
deprecated, and there are two types: The monthly
API ([Get usage attribution][1]), and the file
based APIs ([Get the list of available daily custom reports][2], [Get specified daily custom reports][3],
[Get the list of available monthly custom reports][4], and

> [Get specified monthly custom reports][5]). To use this guide, find the section below for the v1 APIs you are currently using, and follow the instructions to migrate to the corresponding v2 APIs.

Author: ```suggestion
[Get specified monthly custom reports][5]). To use this guide, find the section below for the v1 APIs you are currently use, and follow the instructions to migrate to the corresponding v2 APIs.
```

#### Usage types renamed

The v1 API contains files for:

* `apm`
* `infra`
* `lambda_invocations`
* `lambda_functions`
* `profiled_containers`
* `npm`
* `profiled_hosts`

In the v2 API, the corresponding usage types are:

* `apm_host_usage`
* `infra_host_usage`
* `invocations_usage`
* `functions_usage`
* `profiled_container_usage`
* `npm_host_usage`
* `profiled_host_usage`

To migrate to the v2 API, map specified usage types to the updated names.

#### Timeseries usage type

In the v1 API, the timeseries file contains usage for both standard and custom timeseries.

In the v2 API, there is one `custom_timeseries_usage` usage type.

Datadog only bills for custom timeseries usage, so standard timeseries usage is not needed.

#### Synthetics usage type

In the v1 API, the synthetics file contains usage for both API and browser tests.

In the v2 API, there are two synthetics usage types, `api_usage` and `browser_usage`.

To migrate to the v2 API, use the new usage types for retrieving synthetics usage.

### [Get the list of available monthly custom reports](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-the-list-of-available-monthly-custom-reports)

> This API produces a list of available downloads. Since the file downloads are deprecated there is no replacement for

Author: ```suggestion
This API produces a list of available downloads. Since the file downloads are deprecated, there is no replacement for
```

this API.

### [Get specified monthly custom reports][5]

> This API returns a link to download a zip file of the usage attribution data for all products, for a given month. The zip

Author: ```suggestion
This API returns a link to download a ZIP file of the usage attribution data for all products for a given month. The ZIP
```

> file contains a tsv file for each product, as well as a summary file for each tag. The approaches to replicate the two different types of files are described below.

Author: ```suggestion
file contains a TSV file for each product, as well as a summary file for each tag. The approaches to replicate the two different types of files are described below.
```

### Hourly data by product files

The hourly data files use the naming format `monthly_<product>_<date>.tsv`. Each product file is a concatenated
version of the daily zip files available
from [Get specified daily custom reports][3]
.

The [Get hourly usage attribution][8]
API provides this same data.

As the hourly data files are very similar to files available
from [Get specified daily custom reports][3]

> , the same guide applies, with the exception of the recommendation for time ranges. To migrate from the v1 monthly files,

Author: ```suggestion
, the same guide applies, except the recommendation for time ranges. To migrate from the v1 monthly files,
```

request all pages for each day in the month. Requests are limited to 24 hours at a time in the v2 API.

### Monthly summary by tag files

The monthly summary files use the naming format `summary_<tag>_<date>.tsv`. They provide a rollup for all usage across
the month for each tag. The [Get monthly usage attribution][7]
API provides this same data.

See the sections below for differences between the v1 API and v2 API and recommendations for migrating to the v2 API.

#### Response format

> The v1 API response contains a link to a zip file, which contains a tsv file for each chosen tag.

Author: ```suggestion
The v1 API response contains a link to a ZIP file, containing a TSV file for each chosen tag.
```

The v2 API response returns the usage attribution data in JSON format.

To migrate to the v2 API, your processes must handle the data in JSON format. You can apply transformations
as needed to the JSON data to create the format that best suits your needs.

#### Tag breakdown

> In the v1 API, there is a separate tsv file for each chosen tag.

Author: ```suggestion
In the v1 API, there is a separate TSV file for each chosen tag.
```

in the column of the tag.

Example:

```
month   public_id       team        infra_host_usage ....
2022-01 abc123          billing|sre 100
...
```

In the v2 API, the value corresponding to each tag key in the `tags` object is an array. If a resource is tagged with the
same tag multiple times, there are multiple items in this list.

Example:

```
...
  "tags": {
    "team": [
      "billing",
      "sre"
    ]
  },
...
```

To migrate to the v2 API, your processes must handle resources with the same tag applied multiple times.
Tag values in the v2 response array appear in the same order as they appear in the pipe-separated string in the v1
response, so you can join the array with pipe characters to produce the same tag values as the v1 response.

#### Total usage

In the v1 API, the second row of the file contains aggregated usage for all tags.

In the v2 API, the `metadata.aggregates` section of the response contains aggregated usage for all tags.

To migrate to the v2 API, retrieve total usage from the `metadata.aggregates` section.

#### Usage data type

In the v1 API, some usage is returned with decimal precision. Example:

```

> ... container_usage ...
> ... 55.4            ...
> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
container_usage
55.4
```

Reviewer: Not sure what the `...` fields are intended to represent, so let me know if this is expected or not. I removed them in my local build and took a screenshot if you're curious how it looks without them:
https://a.cl.ly/ApuXdvq6

Reviewer 2: confirmed we can remove the ellipsis to avoid confusion

```

In the v2 API, usage is returned with integer precision. Example:
`"container_usage": 55`

It is not possible to convert from the integer values to the decimal values. The integer values are the rounded decimal values.

#### Child organizations

In the v1 API, the file contains only data for the tag configuration set on the parent org. This includes any child orgs
of the parent, because tag configurations are also applied to child orgs.

In the v2 API, if the parameter `include_descendants=true` is supplied (this is the default), the response contains data for the parent org and all children of the parent. This includes all data from tag configurations
inherited from the parent org to the child orgs, and also includes any tag configurations set directly on those child orgs. The origin of a given tag configuration can be discerned from the `tag_config_source` field.

> In the v2 API, if the parameter `include_descendants=true` is supplied (this is the default), the response
> contains data for the parent org and all children of the parent. This includes all data from tag configurations
> inherited from the parent org to the child orgs, and also includes any tag configurations set directly on those child orgs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Looks like this is duplicate content

The new monthly usage attribution API [Get monthly usage attribution](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-monthly-usage-attribution)
also provides monthly usage attribution and supports querying by combinations of tags.

See the below sections for differences between the two APIs and recommendations for migrating to the new API.

#### Pagination

In the v1 API, pagination is configured by the query parameters offset and limit. The value in
`metadata.pagination.total_number_of_records` provides the total number of records in all pages.

In the v2 API, pagination is configured by the `next_record_id` query parameter. The starting value for the next page is
returned in `metadata.pagination.next_record_id`. There is no total number of records in the response.

In order to migrate to the v2 API, use the `next_record_id` to advance through pages as described on the API
documentation page.

#### Tag Breakdown

In the v1 API, the usage data is broken down for each tag separately in the same response. This leads to what appears to
be duplicate data where the same resource is counted as broken down by tags a, b and c separately.

> In the v2 API, you can select the tag breakdown by supplying a tag configuration in the `tag_breakdown_keys`
> parameter. You can specify one tag at a time or multiple tags as a comma separated list. Supplying multiple tags will
> return usage broken down by the combination of those tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v2 API, you can select the tag breakdown by supplying a tag configuration in the `tag_breakdown_keys` parameter. You can specify one tag at a time, or multiple tags as a comma separated list. Supplying multiple tags returns usage filtered by the combination of those tags.
```

These usage types represent the same product usage. The difference is just a simple field renaming.

## File Based APIs

This set of APIs provide links to download zip files of the usage attribution data in daily and monthly granularity.

### [Get the list of available daily custom reports](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-the-list-of-available-daily-custom-reports)

This API produces a list of available downloads. Since the file downloads are deprecated there is no replacement for
this API.

### [Get specified daily custom reports](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-specified-daily-custom-reports)

This API returns a link to download a zip file of the usage attribution data for all products for a given day. The zip
file contains a tsv file for each product.

The [Get hourly usage attribution](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-hourly-usage-attribution)
API provides this same data.

See the below sections for differences between the two APIs and recommendations for migrating to the new API.

#### Response format

In the v1 API, the response contains a link to a zip file that contains a tsv file per product.

> In the v2 API, the response returns the usage attribution data in json format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v2 API, the response returns the usage attribution data in JSON format.
```

In order to migrate to the v2 API, your processes should handle the data in json format. You can apply transformations

> as needed to the json data in order to get it into the format that best suits your needs.

Reviewer 3: It is a `must`. I will update that.

file contains a tsv file for each product as well as a summary file for each tag. The approaches to replicate each of
those two different types of files are described below.

### Hourly data by product files

The hourly data files are named in the format `monthly_<product>_<date>.tsv`. Each product file is a concatenated
version of the daily zip files available
from [Get specified daily custom reports](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-specified-daily-custom-reports)
.

The [Get hourly usage attribution](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-hourly-usage-attribution)
API provides this same data.

Because the hourly data files are very similar to files available
from [Get specified daily custom reports](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-specified-daily-custom-reports)
, you can follow that guide, except for the recommendation for time ranges. To migrate from the v1 monthly files,
request all pages for each day in the month. Requests are limited to 24 hours at a time in the v2 API.

### Monthly summary by tag files

> The monthly summary files are named in the format `summary_<tag>_<date>.tsv`. They provide a rollup for all usage across
> the month for each tag. The [Get monthly usage attribution](https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/usage-metering/#get-monthly-usage-attribution)
> API provides this same data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The monthly summary files use the naming format `summary_<tag>_<date>.tsv`. They provide a rollup for all usage across
the month for each tag. The [Get monthly usage attribution][7]
API provides this same data.
```

> See the below sections for differences between the two APIs and recommendations for migrating to the new API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the sections below for differences between the v1 API and v2 API and recommendations for migrating to the v2 API.
```

#### Response format

The v1 API response contains a link to a zip file, which contains a tsv file for each chosen tag.

> The v2 API response returns the usage attribution data in json format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The v2 API response returns the usage attribution data in JSON format.
```

> In order to migrate to the v2 API, your processes should handle the data in json format. You can apply transformations
> as needed to the json data in order to get it into the format that best suits your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To migrate to the v2 API, your processes should handle the data in JSON format. You can apply transformations
as needed to the JSON data to create the format that best suits your needs.
```

Reviewer: As above, could you confirm that `should` is accurate here?

#### Tag breakdown

In the v1 API, there is a separate tsv file for each chosen tag.

> In the v2 API, you can select the tag breakdown by supplying a tag configuration in `tag_breakdown_keys` as a comma
> separated list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v2 API, you can select the tag breakdown by supplying a tag configuration in `tag_breakdown_keys` as a comma-separated list.
```

> In order to migrate to the v2 API, make requests with each tag specified on its own in `tag_breakdown_keys`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To migrate to the v2 API, make requests with each tag specified individually in `tag_breakdown_keys`.
```

#### Tag values

> In the v1 API, if a resource is tagged with the same tag multiple times that will show as a pipe (`|`) separated string
> in the column of the tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v1 API, if a resource is tagged with the same tag multiple times, it appears as a pipe (`|`) separated string
in the column of the tag.
```

Example:

```
month   public_id       team        infra_host_usage ....
2022-01 abc123          billing|sre 100
...
```

> In the v2 API, the value corresponding to each tag key in the tags object is an array. If a resource is tagged with the
> same tag multiple times there will be multiple items in this list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v2 API, the value corresponding to each tag key in the `tags` object is an array. If a resource is tagged with the
same tag multiple times, there are multiple items in this list.
```

Example:

```
...
  "tags": {
    "team": [
      "billing",
      "sre"
    ]
  },
...
```

> In order to migrate to the v2 API, your processes should handle resources with the same tag applied multiple times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To migrate to the v2 API, your processes should handle resources with the same tag applied multiple times.
```

> Tag values in the v2 response array will appear in the same order as they appear in the pipe separated string in the v1
> response, so you can join the array with pipe characters to produce the same tag values as the v1 response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tag values in the v2 response array appear in the same order as they appear in the pipe-separated string in the v1
response, so you can join the array with pipe characters to produce the same tag values as the v1 response.
```

#### Total usage

In the v1 API, the second row of the file contains aggregated usage for all tags.

In the v2 API, the `metadata.aggregates` section of the response contains aggregated usage for all tags.

> In order to migrate to the v2 API, retrieve total usage from the `metadata.aggregates` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To migrate to the v2 API, retrieve total usage from the `metadata.aggregates` section.
```

#### Usage data type

In the v1 API, some usage is returned with decimal precision. Example:

```
... container_usage ...
... 55.4            ...
...
```

In the v2 API, usage is returned with integer precision. Example:
`"container_usage": 55`

> It is not possible to convert from the integer values to the decimal values, but the integer values will be the rounded
> values of the decimal values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not possible to convert from the integer values to the decimal values. The integer values are the rounded decimal values.
```

#### Handling of child orgs

> In the v1 API, the file only contains data for the tag configuration set on the parent org. This includes any child orgs
> of the parent because tag configurations are also applied to child orgs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v1 API, the file contains only data for the tag configuration set on the parent org. This includes any child orgs
of the parent, because tag configurations are also applied to child orgs.
```

> In the v2 API, if the parameter `include_descendants=true` is supplied (this is the default) then the response will
> contain data for the parent org and all children of the parent. This will include all data from tag configurations
> inherited from the parent org to the child orgs, but will also include any tag configurations set directly on those
> children. The origin of a given tag configuration can be discerned from the `tag_config_source` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v2 API, if the parameter `include_descendants=true` is supplied (this is the default), the response contains data for the parent org and all children of the parent. This includes all data from tag configurations
inherited from the parent org to the child orgs, and also includes any tag configurations set directly on those child orgs. The origin of a given tag configuration can be discerned from the `tag_config_source` field.
```

> In the v2 API, if the parameter `include_descendants=true` is supplied (this is the default) then the response will
> contain data for the parent org and all children of the parent. This will include all data from tag configurations
> inherited from the parent org to the child orgs, but will also include any tag configurations set directly on those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v2 API, if the parameter `include_descendants=true` is supplied (this is the default), the response
contains data for the parent org and all children of the parent. This includes all data from tag configurations
inherited from the parent org to the child orgs, and also includes any tag configurations set directly on those child orgs.
```

#### Serverless Monitoring Usage

> In the v1 API, usage for serverless monitoring is under the names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v1 API, usage for serverless monitoring uses the names:
```

* `lambda_functions_usage`
* `lambda_functions_percentage`
* `lambda_invocations_usage`
* `lambda_invocations_percentage`

> In the v2 API, usage for serverless monitoring is under the names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the v2 API, usage for serverless monitoring uses the names:
```

* `functions_usage`
* `functions_percentage`
* `invocations_usage`
* `invocations_percentage`

> In order to migrate to the v2 API, look for serverless monitoring usage under these new field names. These
> fields represent the same product usage. The difference is just a field renaming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to migrate to the v2 API, look for serverless monitoring usage under the updated field names. These usage types are functionally equivalent; the only difference is the new field name.
```
